Welcome guys and gals to this cloud formation demo.
So in this lecture we are going to run our very first cloud formation, but at the same time we are
going to take a look at the cloud formation console and get ourselves familiar with it.
Okay, so I'm in the trusty NWS console, so I'm going to search for a cloud formation.
Klick this by default, it's going to take you to the stack screen where it's going to show you all
your existing stacks.
If you don't have anything yet, it's it's going to show empty.
So now let's click create stack and with new resources standard.
So as you can see, there are a couple of ways to submit a confirmation.
So one way is if you have a confirmation template that you upload it into as three and then you can
put the S3 URL here, or if you have a confirmation in your local computer, you can click this and
then click Choose File and then upload the file.
So we're we're not going to do that for this video.
We're going to go the easy way since this is our very first confirmation demo.
So we're going to click Use a sample template.
So confirmation provides you with a number of templates.
So if you click this dropdown, so you will see you have option of LAMB stack, Ruby on Rails stack
and a WordPress blog.
And then you have the multi A-Z version of those three and of the windows.
And then there's this cloud from our tool that we're going to learn later on.
You guys and girls are probably thinking, Huh?
Raj All the stacks look pretty complex, like a lamp stack.
WordPress Like where are the simple ones?
Like easy to S3 sans, etc. We're not so click outside and then see this view.
More sample templates.
I click this button and it's going to open up another page.
So clicking that opened up this page and here you can see templates and snippets via a service.
So see this browse sample templates via WS service.
So I'm going to click this sample templates.
So let's click that.
And here you can see individual confirmation templates for the main services.
Okay.
So I'm going to go for hello world of confirmation or hello all of us in general, which is SE three,
right.
So I'm going to go to this Amazon simple storage service and click it and then it's going to give you
these two templates.
One is Amazon S3 bucket with the deletion promise policy or Amazon S3 website.
Okay.
Here we are going to click this launch stack for Amazon S3 bucket with the deletion policy.
So if you click that so you can see it brings you back to that confirmation create stack screen.
However it has this Amazon S3 URL filled up.
So what happens is any time you upload a template file or you want to run a template file confirmation
automatically uploads it into an S3 bucket.
It refers it from there.
Okay, so now scroll down and click next and it automatically gives the stack name for the cloud formation.
Click next.
Scroll down.
Okay.
Scroll down and then click Create Stack.
And as soon as you click that, you will see our stack with the name as three retention sample.
The status is creating progress.
So on the right side, there are multiple tabs.
One is the stack info.
So this is basically the stack ID and the description and then the status.
A couple of other things.
Okay.
So if you click the events even shows what's happening behind the scene when the cloud formation is
running.
So it's more useful.
Like if something fails and then you come to events, then it gives you a little bit more information.
I wanted to show you guys and girls the event section because it's pretty handy.
Like I mentioned, if the stack failed, it kind of gives you which state failed and the reason.
So this is one of the stack that fell that I submitted.
So you can see it says Rollback in progress.
The following resources fail to create and then it says, Hey, this API is security group.
You are not authorized to perform this operation.
So the event is pretty handy and it gives you a timestamp.
So you know what happened when along with the failure messages and reasons.
Okay, we are back to our SE three stack resources shows you the resources that the cloud formation
spun up.
So this confirmation spun up S3 bucket.
So basically it gave the logical ID, physical ID and the status and we click this.
So it should open up the S3 bucket that just got created.
For the output section so you can print certain things from the cloud formation if you want, and then
all that stuff comes into the output section.
We are going to go on this in a separate lecture parameters you can think of as fields or variables
that a user can input into the cloud formation.
And the template is the cloud formation template that we submitted.
And on the top right, you have a bunch of different options as well.
So you will option to delete this cloud formation stack, you can update the stack and then you could
do a couple of different things.
We are going to learn all about this in our future lectures and then this create stack.
You can create now the stack going back to the screen.
So this page is a really good resource to learn about individual confirmation for each of the services.
So let's say if you want to spin up an easy to cloud formation, you can come here and then Amazon is
in two instance in a security group.
So that's pretty basic.
You can view the cloud formation to study it.
You can copy it from here and paste it in your local code ID or if you want to launch the stack, you
can click this launch stack and it will go through the create stack screens.
All right, guys and girls, first cloud formation in the books.
Join me in the next lecture.